- yen of course I condemn someone going
on a you know terroristic suicidal gun
rampage it's very easy for me to condemn
however I do think the necessary next
step is to point out this killing spree
that's attempted killing spree this
suicidal killing spree was not about
veganism this is someone who happened to
be a vegan youtuber and vegan activist
her fundamental grievance was about
money to quote the little-known rapper
50 cent it usually goes down over money
and [ __ ] guess what people this video
is gonna talk about YouTube it's gonna
talk about vegan activism it's gonna
talk about the psychology of vegan
activist it's gonna talk about a
shooting that recently grabbed headlines
but it shouldn't be too much of a
surprise that in the end the motivation
and the moral issue we have to talk
about is money and badness yen so I got
a bunch of emails like this one from
supporters on patreon and fans the
channel who have other ways to contact
me quote looking forward to your
response regarding the YouTube shooter
and the media is reporting the event
I've only seen three responses from
vegan youtubers thus far and they all
have been quick to deflect blame from
this woman advocating on behalf of
veganism
now look I'm surprised that so many
people wrote to me wanting my opinion on
this it seems like the opinion he wants
to hear from me is that you know acts of
suicidal terrorism are bad now I can
provide that service I can tell you
exactly what you want to hear yes I am
of the opinion that that acts of
suicidal terrorism were bad I uh you
know I would say that many of these
other youtubers the ones listed here and
others you know known and unknown to me
they're probably not coming out and
making a statement on that just because
it's so obvious that it seems needless
or gauche you know I took a hard stand
against violence when it was being
preached by Gary Yourofsky and at that
time Gary Yourofsky was one of the most
influential and charismatic leaders in
the vegan movement so that was a hard
position to take
some people hated before de Ghent and I
showed clips of him talking about and
endorsing violence and I said look guys
we all need to wake up and oppose this
kind of activism whether or not it
actually is violent in itself or whether
or not people actually take inspiration
from this and engage in acts of violent
terrorism you know we need to really
come out in a strong clear position
opposed to this this kind of violence
both many years ago and more recently
I've spoken out against the you know
very heat theoretical and hypothetical
violence of a person like vegan gains is
an actual violence
I mean he's not actually doing anything
violent but where he is you know
threatening people on camera and
pointing guns at the camera and
sometimes getting out knives on camera
while saying threatening things I said
no we got to draw a lot against this but
in those circumstances it does seem like
there's some function for myself as a
commentator in the digital demi-monde
the vegan activism to take position on
this there's a point in me also
criticizing groups like the right to
action everywhere peda
on and on the list goes but I have to
say with something like this I think
many people are not going to condemn it
just because it does seem so obvious
that nobody wants to take a stand take a
moral stand put their foot down and say
hey guess what you know shooting others
, shooting yourself as bad this kind of
act of suicide terrorism is a terrible
thing for veganism and it's also a
terrible way to protest you know the
injustice of how YouTube does business
which is I think hear very clearly the
real issue to be addressed
this wasn't a vegan protest this was a
protest against the business practices
of YouTube corporation so as I said the
intro it's about my usual
however vegan spokespersons should first
and foremost condemn the actress under
these three did the woman shot up
YouTube because the medium was
interfering with her ability to spread
the vegan message I'll come back to that
I think that's not really the issue
having looked at her own website and
every little coverage in some respects
we as vegans are culpable and should
self police to a greater extent well I
wouldn't put it that way no but several
people have come forward and made the
claim that there's no meaningful
connection between this act of violence
and veganism political psychological
otherwise and I wouldn't agree with that
either
what is the connection why does this
matter for veganism what's veganism have
to do with it look a lot of people
involved in veganism care about justice
and I've heard many vegans passionately
claim that we should make the case for
the future of the vegan movement
entirely on the basis of a kind of
justice often they want to articulate it
in terms of a slave rebellion a slave
uprisings justice in lashing out for
vengeance against the slave owners I
mean really this is one school of
thought within vegan political discourse
and I I disagree with that approach root
and branch like I disagree with it in
theory I just you're with it in
principle I disagree with in terms of
the rhetoric I also disagree with it in
practice and most of those people want
to talk to them face-to-face or via
Skype or by email as soon as I start
talking a bit they haven't actually
studied the history of slave rebellions
and slave liberation movements and so on
but the sense of justice and injustice
that that very brittle and I think I can
frankly say self-righteous tendency
within veganism that's that's part of
what attracts a certain type of person
to veganism in the first place and then
once they're within the vegan movement
that element of their character can kind
of blossom can company can become a
major part of their daily life whereas
before me it was a minor or peripheral
part of the of their character or life
right this is this is the the behavior
and the kind of moral posturing that
gets rewarded in the same sense like
keep in mind that I'm not really
singling out veganism or veganism as a
movement that means a lot to me I'm
myself etcetera etcetera but you know if
you knew someone in high school who kind
of seemed like an average kid and then
you meet him 20 years later and you know
he's joined a charismatic Christian cult
where every day he's preaching certain
moral virtues every day let's say he's
going out and warning people that you
know the world is gonna end that the you
know the vision published in the book of
Revelation and the New Testament of the
Bible
this is imminently about to happen you
know certain elements of his character
that you might recognize when you knew
him in high school have in a sense
they've been exorcised people they've
become a greater and greater part of
what's what's manifest what's visible
the type of person he is it's drawn out
exaggerated and exacerbated perhaps
certain characteristics yet in the in
the same way for a lot of people even
though they might have some of these
tendencies notice some of these passions
carrying about justice and injustice
their involvement with the vegan
movement is going to exacerbate
exaggerated and exorcise some of these
tendencies which may be why they got
involved with vegans of the first place
that's not the case for all vegans my
girlfriend Melissa like myself really
the first step that brought her into
veganism was an interest in ecology
that's true for me also I think anyone
who's really thinking in a systematic
and honest way about ecology is gonna
step-by-step become interested in
veganism but for other people I mean I
know one girl here in Canada and for her
it was just the shock of opening a
cardboard box full of chicken you know
butchered chicken ready to eat chicken
from the grocery store and there were
some feathers in the box
seeing the feathers on the flesh of this
evil chicken in the box was a moment of
horrific realization for her she
suddenly felt incredibly revolted by all
meat and then she started asking
questions there are different people who
take different roads to to veganism and
you know to some extent those reflect
the type of characters who are signing
up for veganism at this stage so yes but
this issue of justice and injustice it's
a very dangerous thing and it has been
since Plato since Plato wrote the
Republic
often a book that's often given the
subtitle on the meaning of justice
it's a terrible book by the way Plato's
Republic you have to read it but I don't
recommend it
unfortunately it's required reading but
some terrible book look I talk to people
all the time the situation of my divorce
and my trying to spend quality time with
my daughter my perspective on that is of
doing the best I can
these are the circumstances these are
the laws these the rights and
responsibilities is the financial
constraints and the time constraints
given all these factors what is the best
I can do I'm trying to do something
positive I look at the situation in that
sense and when I talk to other people
who regard it in terms of justice and
injustice I notice their sense of
motivation is radically different from
my own they respond to it with sense of
moral outrage and anger and becoming
despondent and it's not even their
divorce it's not even their daughter
it's my situation but I feel more
positively about it because I'm just
looking at in terms of me doing the best
I can do I'm not looking at it in terms
of justice and an ethic of justice very
often is a layer of shiny blue paint on
top of an ethic of revenge okay so in
some respects we as vegans are couple
and should self lease to a greater
extent
for example condemning the biome entire
tribes of vegan gains etc at the very
least we should condemn acts of violence
tied to spreading the vegan message
before rationalizing our defenses what
are your thoughts here by contrast is
whether patreon supporters who just says
laconically
pedda will love this because it gets the
word vegan in the headlines so I mean
he's joking of course but the joke you
know has teeth the joke definitely has a
political punchline worth worth noting
uh Nazim SABS she was successful on
YouTube so let's be very clear she was
not someone who was struggling to have a
voice on YouTube she was not someone who
was struggling to be heard
rather than ignored she did have a big
following she did have a big audience
although that audience was primarily not
english-speaking that audience was
largely linked to Iran Iranian diaspora
people who are in Iran itself um however
she was getting hundreds of thousands of
views per video so her situation
psychologically politically even
economically is very different from
someone who's struggling to get those
first five hundred regular viewers the
struggle however as pointed out on her
own website it very clearly was about
money so she had an example of a video
that had three hundred thousand views
and YouTube only granted her ten cents
worth of revenue now on my own channel a
hit video a smash hit video generates
one dollar of revenue for me right but a
smash hit video my channel is maybe five
thousand viewers so this month I do have
one smash hit video that has already
generated one u.s. dollar now I would
generate more revenue I don't know how
much more if my videos were not being
constantly censored restricted and
demonetized by YouTube right but as
you've probably guessed I'm not in it
for the money
[ __ ] we're motivated by money everything
about this channel be very different
including this discussion I'm having
with you now right as I say again and
again I feel like on YouTube honesty is
the only currency with God I'm here to
give you something real I don't have any
set I don't have any plot if I don't
have a story to tell what I've got to
share with you is my real life you know
and there's a lot to talk about coming
to that real life politically personally
philosophically and otherwise but I'd
rather come on here and do book reviews
I'm Esther I'm still reading books all
the time you know something real some
that reflects what's going on in my life
what I've been reading about thinking
about I don't unknown addressed in the
type of artifice that would earn more
money before me on YouTube however with
all that Edmund said just as a caveat
very clearly if I can earn one dollar
out of 5,000 views another youtuber like
Nazim SABS
has a very clear grounds for a grievance
in that she has 300,000 views in a video
and she is earning much much less than
one dollar for every 5,000 views right
so I have read the justifications from
YouTube for why it is that their payment
per view is so inconsistent and in a
word prejudicial those explanations are
not good enough if you're an employee at
Starbucks and you know somebody else
gets paid more than you to fill up a
certain number of cups of coffee to work
for a certain number of hours a day you
have every right to ask hey why is it
that he gets paid more than I do why is
it that she gets paid less than I do
what are the grounds of this inequality
right if you have a system a structured
system of content distribution like
YouTube I think everyone involved in
playing the game would accept it if the
amount they were earning we're now
lowered lower than what it is now but
was fair and consistent well you could
say hey all right you know what I make
one dollar out of every 5,000 views and
I know that someone else decides to do
some other kind of content they also
make $1 for every 5,000 views fair's
fair
right we can all play by the same rules
we don't open even playing field instead
what YouTube has done is to set up an
unequal an uneven playing field that is
constantly egregiously hurtful to all
the people playing on it now look I mean
I can talk about my own feelings in this
it's probably people who are looking for
on this channel I have heard very
successful youtubers talk about their
own sense of frustration that they can
have a much more successful video in
terms of the audience response or an
artistically successful video or a video
that's successful in terms of what they
can see in terms their audience's
appreciation of it that earns them much
less money than some other video that
was unsuccessful and disliked by the
audience
but somehow generated more revenue the
sense that there is no meaningful link
between the quality of their output and
the quant
they get paid this can be quite
demoralizing even for very successful
youtubers who really do pay their rent
what the case study of Nazim sab shows
you is that people who are down at the
low end of the scale
people are getting 10 cents for a video
that has 300,000 views on it they also
are left with a terrible sense of
injustice and in this case she decided
to take the layer of paint off of
injustice her off of the the concept of
justice and injustice and to simply
pursue revenge now do I believe that is
morally wrong
of course I've already said in this
video of course I condemn someone going
on a you know terroristic suicidal gun
rampage it's very easy for me to condemn
however I do think the necessary next
step is to point out this killing spree
and it's attempted killing spree this
suicidal killing spree was not about
veganism this is someone who happened to
be a vegan youtuber and vegan activist
her fundamental grievance was about
money I remember there was a case in New
York of a couple of homicides linked to
kebbeh claw importers of Christmas trees
these are guys who cut down trees in
Quebec and hold them to New York City
and sell them to people so that people
in New York who live in apartments and
condominiums can have a real Christmas
tree a living tree drag town and you
know I think a lot of it these guys you
know don't pay taxes you know they're
it's as kind of an underground semi
illegal industry and once in a while
their disputes between these guys and
they kill each other and the hosts
remember of his interview with the local
cop who said like look can you believe
it people are killing each other over
Christmas trees and the police officer
said of course this is money involved
you know anything like this it's the
human heart and you know to quote 50
cent it usually goes down over money in
hose I mean whether it's a love triangle
a broken heart or you know it's a broken
wallet these are the things that
generally do drive people to homicidal
act
of self-destruction ablution